Quora has always been “restricted” in Chinese internet.

First of all, if you are not familiar with the GFW, here are some perspectives, from a veteran Chinese internet user: GFW is actually not just a firewall invented by the Chinese Government. It is a series of measures to block and disrupt foreign data traffic. The Technical Details are not disclosed to the public, but the end result: many foreign sites are not accessible.

Things got complicated in the *Cloud Service Era*, as it has become a thriving trend for many internet companies.

It’s a game changer. What it is, is essentially the abolish of individual physical servers, maintained and providing services for each company (which is costly and risky to maintain); instead, they out-source these services in specialized “cloud companies”.

And analogy would be, one day you don’t need to own a car anymore, you can always take a cab, and a cab will always be there when you need it. It’s cheaper, more convenient, and it shifts the risk of having a car crash to the cab company from yourself.

Therefore, it posted the Chinese government a problem: in a cloud service, it is entirely possible, that a academic site — not sinister, not porn, not subversive, completely innocent, shares the cloud server with epochtimes.

Banning epochtimes means banning the innocent sites. Collateral damage.

To make things worse, if a site itself is not banned by GFW, but some of its services is likely to be routed from a cloud service, where the sites from the ban list are also located. It results in a rather awkward result: you can use the site, but some of its services are slow / unavailable to you.

Such as — Quora.

Now, I had been using Quora only since March, 2018. But since back then, I noticed many things about it.

Quora notification for Android OS doesn’t work.
Page refresh is slow.
There is huge discrepancy from the article in my feed and my profile page, i.e. if I made a mistake and I edited my answer, submitted, and in effect, my profile page will still show the erroneous version. However, if I search the feed, it will be correct.
Some comment notifications never reaches me.
All of the above can be fixed, with a VPN. (Before August).

In August, I don’t think of what happens is a “Ban”, but a more severe case of “Services not reaching to China internet”. There are several explanations for this:

CCP banned more sites which Quora services are sharing cloud service.
Quora started to abolish more obsolete servers, and started to route more of its services on cloud services (which saves money and make things faster, for users outside of China).
People started to talk about the “Winnie the Pooh” meme on Quora.
Hold on, let me get the door, my package delivery has arrived. Will be back.

